I have not heard the bombs fall
I was not there.
What I heard were the sounds of the city full of life, with no care in mind
Children laugh and cry and run around merrily

What I heard were the odd silences where the voices should be
Voices of our elder brothers and sisters, probing, caring, curious, eager to share what they've learn in their days.

What I heard were the sobbing at night, sudden bouts of fury and hatred, white-haired women breaking into tears and asking to bless my child in the middle of an urban park.

What I heare were TV sets blithely blathering propaganda from every corners, elderly neighbour asking me about my ethnicity, odd cadences in the word "cosmopolite" making it sound as if it were something obscene.

School history lessons suddenly becoming evasive when encountering certain topics

Portraits of the dear leader behind bureaucreat's desks.

"Ihre papieren bitte" barked as if to imply that no "bitte" was meant and no refusal is expected.

Whole generations thrown back into frolicking, debauched puberty, because they had to commit all the mistakes anew, no parents willing to teach and guide and share and take charge of them, no one to pass the flame, or rather the intricate technology to handle it, so the flame of youth, of humanity, of bestial rage, chauvinism, fear, tribalism bursts forth, young and ignorant, a newborn nation -- or a lobotomized one?

What I heard was a canticle, a sidur, a cry of remembrance becoming false halfway on, phony, detatched. Meaning peeling of off it in layers, withering strands of imitation, pretention, deception.

What I heard was poetry, orphaned, interrupted.

What I heard was myself. Mumbling, raving mad without a tongue to command, withough a shelter, without identity.

What I heard was here and now.

Soft rain drumming its tinny music outside, streaming down the dirty white brick, down the demicentennial birch, down the pavement and into the gutter, and off to the sea whence we all came, where we all belong.